one of the things that you find in the
book and I wrote a bunch of it down out
of context so that I could ask you about
it was you say many times that you
stretched the truth or didn't tell the
truth or lacked candor
well I don't say many times this is this
an important point and let me get some
of this let me give you an illustration
of just exactly what you're talking
about
in December 1963 I had gone to Vietnam
to appraise what the situation was just
shortly after Kennedy died and by the
way and we should get on to this it was
within a few weeks of the time that on
my wreckin date recommendation he had
announced we were going to plan to
withdraw all US military personnel by
the end of 1965 and that we would
withdraw 1,000 before the end of 63
within 90 days of the date he made the
house and furthermore that we could
announce it publicly then which we did
so here it is within that 90-day period
we're we're we're drawing we did
withdraw the thousand but what I said to
the press was when they asked me I said
I quote we observed the results of a
very substantial increase in Vietcong
enemy activity that was true but then I
added we reviewed the plans of the South
Vietnamese government and we have every
reason to believe they will be
successful
unquote that was an overstatement at
best because I said to the president in
a written report quote the situation is
very disturbing that's the kind of thing
you're talking about now but but I think
you should also understand who your
people should and then when they read
the book they'll see that to the press
in 1964 I said the situation is serious
and again in 64 I said the situation in
South Vietnam has unquestionably
worsened in 65 I said it'll be a long
war in August of 67 after I spent all
day before the Stennis Committee senator
Thurmond said your words are the words
of a communist appeaser it's a no-win
policy so at times I was excessively up
mistake no question about it but at
other times I was candid and accurate
and charged with being a communist
appeaser on the the issue of President
Kennedy you said that he denounced adult
trips to come out by 65 but you also
quote in your own book a comment that he
made shortly before he was shot on the
Brinkley huntley-brinkley show where he
said he was gonna stick it out or I try
to slide that this is a very important
point I think let's take a second
because there's another quote right
right before that I think I can find
there is on the same page and I thought
well that since we won't take the time
to find I know the two quotes almost
verbatim they they came within a week of
each other they were in September of
1963 Kennedy died as you know November
23rd and in Sept 22nd I'm sorry
it was buried it said November 22nd and
and in the first week of September say
eight weeks before he died he had two
interviews one with Cronkite and one
with Brinkley in the Cronkite interview
he said in effect it's a South
Vietnamese war only they can win it in a
later interview with Brinkley
he said just what you said that I I
think we should stay we should use our
influence and as effective a way as we
can we should not withdraw that's right
but that was there was an implicit
qualification there which he had
outlined earlier and the implicit
qualification was twofold number one
that there was a sufficiently stable
political regime that outside troops
could be effective that condition was
not met secondly that the South
Vietnamese would be willing to carry the
brunt of the war he said to Cronkite
very very clearly it's their war only
they can win it now what he I think what
he meant when he talked to Brinkley that
way was we're gonna stay as long as
those conditions are met it is his
statements before and after the Brinkley
think we're
totally consistent with his statement of
Cronkite so III know which is that I put
it in there just for the reason that in
a sense you quoted that I wanted to have
the public record clear he said both
things but the Brinkley statement was
qualified by the Cronkite statement you
speak very highly of John